nitial Consultation.  All service animals must have an initial consultation with a certified Woof Dogs service animal evaluator.  Not every dog is suited to be an effective service animal for the specific tasks that need to be performed.  During the initial consultation, the evaluator will discuss your goals for the service animal, the specific tasks you would like the animal to perform, dog behavior and temperament, and previous obedience training.  We will also run some preliminary tests to determine your dog’s reactivity, drive, learning aptitude, problem-solving skills, and level of obedience. The information obtained in this consultation will allow us to give you a personalized training plan based on the needs, abilities and capabilities of the owner and dog. Furthermore, we are in high-demand for service animal training, and we will only work with those owners who are fully committed and involved in the training process.   

Training.    Training programs will not follow a specific timeline as every client and service animal candidate trains at a different level and schedule. Training may occur in various locations including, but not limited to, client’s home, Woof Dogs’ Training Center, airports, and malls. Our goal is to complete a successful training program to the best of our abilities to better the life of every owner/handler.  

Client’s Duty to Assist in and Continue Training: Client understands and agrees that s/he and any family members must follow the instructions of the Woof Dogs certified trainer and constantly reinforce the training being given to the dog.

Testing. In order to become a Woof Dogs certified service animal, we will need a letter from a medical professional verifying the need for a service animal, and the following tests must be passed: Canine Good Citizen (CGC), Canine Good Citizen Advanced (CGCA), Woof Dogs Service Animal Test (WDSAT). Training a dog for service work is an extensive process with many factors involved. It is not possible to guarantee that your dog will pass all the tests. Even very well-behaved dogs may not have the fortitude to handle service work. This does not stop them from being the best pet they can be, and we will continue to help you in achieving that.

*Certification. * Upon successful completion of the above-mentioned tests, your dog will be a Woof Dogs certified service animal and will be provided with a service animal identification card valid for one year from completion of the tests.  

Renewal.  The Woof Dogs service animal certification must be renewed yearly.  Each year, the dog must be retested to ensure that the service animal can still perform the required tasks and meet the required Woof Dogs standards. Woof Dogs, LLC will in no way verify to any agency, company, or third party that a service animal is certified past the expiration date.          

By signing this agreement, Client acknowledges, agrees, and understands that Woof Dogs has not represented, promised, guaranteed, or warranted that the dog can be trained or that the training will last for any particular amount of time as each dog is different with regard to ability, breeding, and temperament. Client further acknowledges, agrees, and understands that they must practice with their dog in between appointments/classes what they learned during each lesson and that follow-up and scheduling of future training sessions and recertification tests is their sole responsibility.